Again this video we're going to be taking a look at actually publishing the rest documentation with
spring boots so no Spring Boot will publish things from the static directory automatically so I'll make
those static resources available when it's deployed as a web application.
So give you a little insight hint here what we have as we have our generator DOCSIS indexation GMO and
in the classes directory.
So this is effectively what is going to jarred up as our application in a nutshell.
So but what we want to do is get this into a static directory up here in this classes directory so we
can do that through maven configuration so I'm just going to open up that main palm here and what we
need to do is add in a little maven configuration and I am going to copy that on over and I'm pretty
sure nobody wants to watch me type everything in here.
But we will do a code review.
So here I am on line 155 I'm adding in configuration for the Maven resources plug in and then under
executions I'm giving an execution I.D. of copy resources in the phase as prepare package so that as
a maven lifecycle phase and we are going to run the goal of this plug in to copy resources and then
down on line 164 you can see the sort where the configuration block starts and what we are saying is
that we are going to target the project build output directory static docs.
So we are going to put it into the docs folder.
So again Spring Boot by default is going to serve out resources from any thing that's under slash static.
That is a little bit of Spring Boot goodness.
And what we want to do is copy the contents of generated docs to static docs so that's what this configuration
does and this is pretty much a cut and paste from the spring rest docs documentation so that this is
exactly how they say to prepare a Spring Boot to serve us so the end effect of this will be as well
when you're Spring Boot applications deployed.
You'll be able go to static slash docs and see the contents of that.
So in this case it's named index H2 AML so it automatically come up in the browser.
So now let's go ahead I'm going to do a clean and we'll do a package and then we'll go ahead and review
what actually gets generated here and then again maven resources plug in this is a standard plug in
from maven pretty stable been around for a long time and it's pretty common to use this to customize
your your build packaging very handy in.
So let's go and take a look at the target directory.
Again we have generated docs so we have this index HDMI out and we want this to be copied and you can
see here a copy statics docs HMO.
So exactly what we wanted to have copied again this directory was not there.
We have copied it with the configuration of this plugin.
And now if we were to open up the jar and inspect the char I assure you that the new we would find a
directory of static docs indexed HMO.
And when we run the Spring Boot application from the jar we will have documentation served up there.
So some people want to do this some people don't to have API documentation it is a nice feature.
Your organization may not want to do this.
There's a lot of different strategies of deploying API documentation.
This is just one example.
I think in a smaller company that's probably going to be more likely something that you'll do in a large
organization.
I expect that there will be a different process put in place.
So this is more of a f y.
So if you have the capability do it great.
But once you get into the enterprise do not be surprised if they have a an alternative way of deploying
API documentation.